As we've stepped through our code in the debugger,
you've seen an identifier named this in the debugger pane.
This is a reserved keyword that contains the address of the current object.
So it's a pointer to the object that's currently being used by the class member methods.
The this keyword can only be used within the scope of the class.
In many other object-oriented programming languages,
we use the word self instead of this.
But in c++,  we use the keyword this.
All member access is done via the this pointer.
However, c++ allows you to use member names directly.
And behind the scenes, it's actually using this pointer.
This can be used by the programmer, and in many cases, we must use it.
We can use it to explicitly access data members and methods.
We can also use it to determine if two objects are the same.
We'll use this in the next section when we overload the assignment
operator to determine if we're assigning to ourselves.
Of course, since this points to the current object if you de-reference it,
you'll follow the pointer and work with the current object.
Here's an example of one way to write the set balance method for an account class.
Notice that the name of the parameter is bal
and the code in the body of the method is balance equals bal,
which assigns the value of the parameter bal to the class data member balance.
We don't have to write this arrow balance
but that's exactly what the compiler is doing for us behind the scenes.
Now suppose that the name of the parameter was balance.
Now in the method body, the assignment statement
balance equals balance would use the parameter balance for
both of those identifiers instead of the data member balance.
That's because of scope rules.
Now this statement would not accomplish what we wanted to do.
So in order to refer to the data member balance,
we need to explicitly use this arrow balance.
Finally, suppose we have a compare balance method in the account class
that compares the balance of one object with another.
We could check to see if we're comparing the same objects by comparing this
and the address of other.
If they're the same, then we're dealing with the same object.
In this example,
it wouldn't make much difference in our code since we're simply comparing balances.
But if our compare logic is involved or computationally expensive,
then a quick check to see if the objects are the same could help performance.
We'll use the this pointer again in the operator overloading section of the course.